.. _Modulus:

=======
Modulus
=======

.. default-domain:: mongodb

Modulus is a premier Node.js and MongoDB hosting platform that
provides a complete technology stack for application developers. This
includes custom SSL, WebSockets, statistics, and more.

MongoDB is available as a first-class solution on the `Modulus
platform <http://modulus.io>`_. The platform provides easy managment
tools to create databases, create and update users, and observe
database performance in realtime.

Modulus supports replica sets on dedicated plans. This includes the
ablity for Meteor users to have access to the oplog. To find out more
about our dedicated plans, contact `sales <mailto:sales@modulus.io>`_.

By providing a place to run both Node.js applications and MongoDB
databases Modulus gives you a single place to handle all your platform
needs. This means faster connections between your applications and
databases, and fewer headaches managing them. This doesn't mean that
you have to run your application on Modulus; you can choose any
application platform you'd like.

If you need a dedicated environment, Modulus provides the answer with
`Curvature <http://curvature.io>`_. You can get everything mentioned
above with the flexibility to choose where you run your application.
It could be on-premises, in a dedicated cloud, or a hybrid of the two.


Modulus Account Setup
---------------------

If you don't have an account yet, go ahead and `create one
<https://modulus.io/register>`_.

Next, install the CLI (requires Node.js & npm).

.. code-block:: sh

   npm install -g modulus

If you have any questions check the `documentation
<https://modulus.io/codex/cli/using_the_cli>`_ first, and if that
doesn't provide you with an answer `contact Modulus
<https://modulus.io/contact>`_.

Now make sure you're logged in.

.. code-block:: sh

   modulus login

Once logged in you're ready to go.

Create a Database
-----------------

It's very simple to create a database on Modulus.

.. code-block:: sh

   modulus mongo create "Database Name"
   Welcome to Modulus
   You are logged in as spiderman
   Creating MongoDB database Database Name
   [√] New MongoDB database Database Name created.
   Database available at: noveda.modulusmongo.net:27017/xxxxxxx

Once you've created a database, you'll need to create a user.

.. code-block:: sh

   Welcome to Modulus
   You are logged in as spiderman
   [?] Are you sure you want to use database Database Name? (yes)
   Selected MongoDB database Database Name.
   [?] Enter username: johnny
   [?] Enter password: five
   [?] Read only permissions? (yes) no
   [✓] New MongoDB database user johnny created.

The full MongoDB URI corresponding to the above steps is:

.. code-block:: sh

   mongodb://johnny:five@noveda.modulusmongo.net:27017/xxxxxxx

Databases can also be created through the web interface. Navigate to
your User dashboard and select the Databases tab on the left.

To create a new database click the "Create Database" button.

.. image:: /figures/modulus_mongo_create_dialog.png

On this dialog enter your desired label for the database. This name is
simply a convenience label and is not the actual name of the database
within MongoDB. Actual database names are created automatically by
Modulus.

You can also create a database user using the web interface. You must
create a user in order to access your database.

Once complete, the popup will change with information about your
newly-created database.

.. image:: /figures/modulus_mongo_ready_dialog.png

The MongoDB URI can be used to connect to your database from your
application.  The Mongo Console is the command used to connect to your
instance using the :program:`mongo` shell. This information can also
be retrieved at any time from the database dashboard.

More Documentation
------------------

- `MongoDB-specific documentation <https://modulus.io/codex/database>`_

- `Modulus documentation <http://modulus.io/codex>`_


Help
----

There are many ways you can get help with Modulus. We always recommend
joining the IRC channel as a first step. You can also contact the
Modulus team via email and Twitter.

- #modulus on irc.freenode.net `IRC <http://irc-5518.onmodulus.net/>`_

- `Email <mailto:help@modulus.io>`_

- `@OnModulus on Twitter <http://www.twitter.com/OnModulus>`_
